# Combining Differentiable PDE Solvers and Graph Neural Networks for Fluid Flow Prediction
* **Author**: Filipe de Avila Belbute-Peres, Thomas D. Economon, J. Zico Kolter
* **Abstract**:Solving large complex partial differential equations (PDEs), such as those that arise in computational fluid dynamics (CFD), is a computationally expensive process. This has motivated the use of deep learning approaches to approximate the PDE solutions, yet the simulation results predicted from these approaches typically do not generalize well to truly novel scenarios. In this work, we develop a hybrid (graph) neural network that combines a traditional graph convolutional network with an embedded differentiable fluid dynamics simulator inside the network itself. By combining an actual CFD simulator (run on a much coarser resolution representation of the problem) with the graph network, we show that we can both generalize well to new situations and benefit from the substantial speedup of neural network CFD predictions, while also substantially outperforming the coarse CFD simulation alone.
* **Summary**:In this paper, we have presented a system that integrates a differentiable CFD simulator as a module into a larger deep learning system. This system is unique in that it works directly with unstructured meshes, by using graph operators. As demonstrated by our experiments, the combination of the fluid simulations performed in a coarser version of the original mesh and the learned parts of the model, creates a system that is able to generate predictions that are faster than a full simulation and more accurate than a purely learned model. Moreover, we show that such a model is able to generalize to parameter settings outside of the training distribution. We believe the system we present in this work contributes to a recent trend of combining structured knowledge and learning-based methods. When correctly applied, these types of combinations have the potential to benefit from the complementary strong points of each approach.
* **Keywords**: CFD-GCN
* **Code**:https://github.com/locuslab/cfd-gcn
* **Dataset**: NACA0012