# Constant Curvature Graph Convolutional Networks
* **Author**: Gregor Bachmann, Gary Becigneul, Octavian-Eugen Ganea
* **Abstract**:Interest has been rising lately towards methods representing data in non-Euclidean spaces, e.g. hyperbolic or spherical, that provide specific inductive biases useful for certain real-world data properties, e.g. scale-free, hierarchical or cyclical. However, the popular graph neural networks are currently limited in modeling data only via Euclidean geometry and associated vector space operations. Here, we bridge this gap by proposing mathematically grounded generalizations of graph convolutional networks (GCN) to (products of) constant curvature spaces. We do this by i) introducing a unified formalism permitting a differentiable interpolation between all geometries of constant curvature, ii) leveraging gyrobarycentric coordinates that generalize the classic Euclidean concept of the center of mass. Our class of models smoothly recover their Euclidean counterparts when the curvature goes to zero from either side. Empirically, we outperform Euclidean GCNs in the tasks of node classification and distortion minimization for symbolic data exhibiting non-Euclidean behavior, according to their discrete curvature.
* **Summary**:In this paper, we introduced a natural extension of GCNs to the stereographic models of both positive and negative curvatures in a unified manner. We show how this choice of models permits a differentiable interpolation between positive and negative curvature, allowing the curvature to be trained independent of an initial sign choice. We hope that our models will open new exciting directions into nonEuclidean graph neural networks.
* **Keywords**: GCN
* **Code**:
* **Dataset**: CITESEER, CORA, PUBMED, AIRPORT