# Fast Learning of Graph Neural Networks with Guaranteed Generalizability: One-hidden-layer Case
* **Author**: Shuai Zhang, Meng Wang , Sijia Liu, Pin-Yu Chen, Jinjun Xiong
* **Abstract**:Although graph neural networks (GNNs) have made great progress recently on learning from graph-structured data in practice, their theoretical guarantee on generalizability remains elusive in the literature. In this paper, we provide a theoretically-grounded generalizability analysis of GNNs with one hidden layer for both regression and binary classification problems. Under the assumption that there exists a groundtruth GNN model (with zero generalization error), the objective of GNN learning is to estimate the ground-truth GNN parameters from the training data. To achieve this objective, we propose a learning algorithm that is built on tensor initialization and accelerated gradient descent. We then show that the proposed learning algorithm converges to the ground-truth GNN model for the regression problem, and to a model sufficiently close to the ground-truth for the binary classification problem. Moreover, for both cases, the convergence rate of the proposed learning algorithm is proven to be linear and faster than the vanilla gradient descent algorithm. We further explore the relationship between the sample complexity of GNNs and their underlying graph properties. Lastly, we provide numerical experiments to demonstrate the validity of our analysis and the effectiveness of the proposed learning algorithm for GNNs.
* **Summary**:Despite the practical success of graph neural networks in learning graph-structured data, the theoretical guarantee of the generalizability of graph neural networks is still elusive. Assuming the existence of a ground-truth model, this paper shows theoretically, for the first time, learning a onehidden-layer graph neural network with a generation error that is zero for regression or approximately zero for binary classification. With the tensor initialization, we prove that the accelerated gradient descent method converges to the ground-truth model exactly for regression or approximately for binary classification at a linear rate. We also characterize the required number of training samples as a function of the feature dimension, the model size, and the graph structural properties. One future direction is to extend the analysis to multi-hidden-layer neural networks.
* **Keywords**: Guaranteed Generalizability
* **Code**:
* **Dataset**: synthetic graph-structured data