# Graph Convolutional Network for Recommendation with Low-pass Collaborative Filters
* **Author**: Wenhui Yu, Zheng Qin 
* **Abstract**:Graph Convolutional Network (GCN) is widely used in graph data learning tasks such as recommendation. However, when facing a large graph, the graph convolution is very computationally expensive thus is simplified in all existing GCNs, yet is seriously impaired due to the oversimplification. To address this gap, we leverage the original graph convolution in GCN and propose a Low-pass Collaborative Filter (LCF) to make it applicable to the large graph. LCF is designed to remove the noise caused by exposure and quantization in the observed data, and it also reduces the complexity of graph convolution in an unscathed way. Experiments show that LCF improves the effectiveness and efficiency of graph convolution and our GCN outperforms existing GCNs significantly.
* **Summary**:In this paper, we first designed a LCF to remove the highfrequency exposure noise and quantization noise from the observed interaction matrix to uncover the underlying rating matrix. We then proposed the 2D graph convolution by extending convolution from the Euclidean domain to the graph domain. Finally, we designed a deep GCN and injected the LCF into it. This LCF removes the noise to improve the prediction accuracy as well as provides a new way to design applicable GCN without hurting the ability of graph convolution.
* **Keywords**: LCFN
* **Code**:https://github.com/Wenhui-Yu/LCFN
* **Dataset**:Amazon, Movielens