# Coloring Graph Neural Networks for Node Disambiguation
* **Author**: George Dasoulas , Ludovic Dos Santos , Kevin Scaman , Aladin Virmaux
* **Abstract**:In this paper, we show that a simple coloring scheme can improve, both theoretically and empirically, the expressive power of Message Passing Neural Networks (MPNNs). More specifically, we introduce a graph neural network called Colored Local Iterative Procedure (CLIP) that uses colors to disambiguate identical node attributes, and show that this representation is a universal approximator of continuous functions on graphs with node attributes 1 . Our method relies on separability, a key topological characteristic that allows to extend well-chosen neural networks into universal representations. Finally, we show experimentally that CLIP is capable of capturing structural characteristics that traditional MPNNs fail to distinguish, while being state-of-the-art on benchmark graph classification datasets.
* **Summary**:In this paper, we showed that a simple coloring scheme can improve the expressive power of MPNNs. Using such a coloring scheme, we extended MPNNs to create CLIP, the first universal graph representation. Universality was proven using the novel concept of separable neural networks, and our experiments showed that CLIP is state-of-the-art on both graph classification datasets and property testing tasks. The coloring scheme is especially well suited to hard classification tasks that require complex structural information to learn. The framework is general and simple enough to extend to other data structures such as directed, weighted or labeled graphs. Future work includes more detailed and quantitative approximation results depending on the parameters of the architecture such as the number of colors k, or number of hops of the iterative neighborhood aggregation.
* **Keywords**: CLIP
* **Code**:
* **Dataset**: WL, DCNN, PS , DGCNN , AWL , GIN 