# LSGCN: Long Short-Term Traffic Prediction with Graph Convolutional Networks
* **Author**: Rongzhou Huang, Chuyin Huang, Yubao Liu , Genan Dai, Weiyang Kong
* **Abstract**:Traffic prediction is a classical spatial-temporal prediction problem with many real-world applications such as intelligent route planning, dynamic traffic management, and smart location-based applications. Due to the high nonlinearity and complexity of traffic data, deep learning approaches have attracted much interest in recent years. However, few methods are satisfied with both long and short-term prediction tasks. Target at the shortcomings of existing studies, in this paper, we propose a novel deep learning framework called Long Shortterm Graph Convolutional Networks (LSGCN) to tackle both traffic prediction tasks. In our framework, we propose a new graph attention network called cosAtt, and integrate both cosAtt and graph convolution networks (GCN) into a spatial gated block. By the spatial gated block and gated linear units convolution (GLU), LSGCN can efficiently capture complex spatial-temporal features and obtain stable prediction results. Experiments with three real-world traffic datasets verify the effectiveness of LSGCN.
* **Summary**:In this paper, we propose a new graph convolutional networks model LSGCN for long and short-term traffic prediction. In LSGCN, we integrate both a new graph attention network cosAtt and GCN to precisely capture the spatial features and at the same adopt the GLU to capture the temporal features. The experiments on real traffic networks verify the effectiveness of LSGCN. In the future, we will consider our proposed model for more general spatio-temporal structured sequence forecasting such as preference prediction in recommendation systems.
* **Keywords**:LSGCN
* **Code**:
* **Dataset**: PeMSD4,PeMSD7,PeMSD8