# Multi-Class Imbalanced Graph Convolutional Network Learning
* **Author**: Min Shi , Yufei Tang , Xingquan Zhu , David Wilson , Jianxun Liu
* **Abstract**:Networked data often demonstrate the Pareto principle (i.e., 80/20 rule) with skewed class distributions, where most vertices belong to a few majority classes and minority classes only contain a handful of instances. When presented with imbalanced class distributions, existing graph embedding learning tends to bias to nodes from majority classes, leaving nodes from minority classes under-trained. In this paper, we propose DualRegularized Graph Convolutional Networks (DRGCN) to handle multi-class imbalanced graphs, where two types of regularization are imposed to tackle class imbalanced representation learning. To ensure that all classes are equally represented, we propose a class-conditioned adversarial training process to facilitate the separation of labeled nodes. Meanwhile, to maintain training equilibrium (i.e., retaining quality of fit across all classes), we force unlabeled nodes to follow a similar latent distribution to the labeled nodes by minimizing their difference in the embedding space. Experiments on real-world imbalanced graphs demonstrate that DR-GCN outperforms the state-of-the-art methods in node classification, graph clustering, and visualization.
* **Summary**:Real-world graph structured data usually present highlyskewed class distributions. The most critical challenge, when learning from class-imbalanced graphs, is that the nodes have strong topological interdependence, causing existing network representation learning methods to underperform on minority classes. In this paper, we proposed a novel dual-regularized graph convolutional network that contains a conditional adversarial training to enhance the separation of nodes from different classes and a distribution alignment training to enforce balanced learning between majority and minority classes. We conducted extensive comparative studies to evaluate the proposed framework for both node classification and unsupervised graph clustering. The validations, visualizations, and comparisons from the experimental results demonstrated that the proposed DR-GCN model is effective to handle graph data with naturally imbalanced class distributions.
* **Keywords**:DRGCN
* **Code**:
* **Dataset**:Cora,Citeseer,Pubmed, DBLP