# Multi-hop Reading Comprehension across Documents with Path-based Graph Convolutional Network
* **Author**:Zeyun Tang , Yongliang Shen , Xinyin Ma , Wei Xu , Jiale Yu ,  Weiming Lu
* **Abstract**:Multi-hop reading comprehension across multiple documents attracts much attention recently. In this paper, we propose a novel approach to tackle this multi-hop reading comprehension problem. Inspired by human reasoning processing, we construct a path-based reasoning graph from supporting documents. This graph can combine both the idea of the graph-based and path-based approaches, so it is better for multi-hop reasoning. Meanwhile, we propose Gated-RGCN to accumulate evidence on the path-based reasoning graph, which contains a new question-aware gating mechanism to regulate the usefulness of information propagating across documents and add question information during reasoning. We evaluate our approach on WikiHop dataset, and our approach achieves state-of-the-art accuracy against previously published approaches. Especially, our ensemble model surpasses human performance by 4.2%.
* **Summary**:In this paper, we propose a novel approach for multi-hop reading comprehension across documents. Our approach extends the entity graph by introducing reasoning entities, which can form the reasoning path from question to candidates. In addition, our approach incorporates the question in the multi-hop reasoning through a new gate mechanism to regulate how much useful information propagating from neighbors to the node. Experiments show that our approach achieves state-of-the-art accuracy both for single and ensemble models. Our future work would focus on the interpretability of the multi-hop reading comprehension across documents. In addition, we would like to build the entity graph with reasoning entities dynamically during the reasoning, and apply our model on other datasets.
* **Keywords**:DRGCN
* **Code**:
* **Dataset**:WIKIHOP