# Multi-View Attribute Graph Convolution Networks for Clustering
* **Author**:Jiafeng Cheng, Qianqian Wang , Zhiqiang Tao , Deyan Xie , Quanxue Gao
* **Abstract**:Graph neural networks (GNNs) have made considerable achievements in processing graph-structured data. However, existing methods cannot allocate learnable weights to different nodes in the neighborhood and lack of robustness on account of neglecting both node attributes and graph reconstruction. Moreover, most of multi-view GNNs mainly focus on the case of multiple graphs, while designing GNNs for solving graph-structured data of multi-view attributes is still under-explored. In this paper, we propose a novel Multi-View Attribute Graph Convolution Networks (MAGCN) model for the clustering task. MAGCN is designed with two-pathway encoders that map graph embedding features and learn view-consistency information. Specifically, the first pathway develops multiview attribute graph attention networks to reduce the noise/redundancy and learn the graph embedding features of multi-view graph data. The second pathway develops consistent embedding encoders to capture the geometric relationship and the consistency of probability distribution among different views, which adaptively finds a consistent clustering embedding space for multi-view attributes. Experiments on three benchmark graph databases show the effectiveness of our method compared with several state-of-the-art algorithms.
* **Summary**:In this paper, we propose a novel Multi-View Attribute Graph Convolution Networks for Clustering (MAGCN), a generally method to multi-view graph neural network. MAGCN is designed with dual encoders that reconstruct the extracted features in high dimension and integrate the low dimension consistent information. Multi-view attribute graph auto-encoder and consistent embedding encoder network successively reduce the noise and the difference among different views, and finally get the ideal description space of multi-view attribute graph for clustering. Experimental results on the multi-view graph structure databases demonstrate the validity of our method and perform superior advantages over several stateof-the-art algorithms.
* **Keywords**:MAGCN
* **Code**:
* **Dataset**:Cora,Citeseer,Pubmed