# Smart Contract Vulnerability Detection Using Graph Neural Networks
* **Author**:Yuan Zhuang, Zhenguang Liu , Peng Qian , Qi Liu , Xiang Wang ,Qinming He
* **Abstract**:The security problems of smart contracts have drawn extensive attention due to the enormous financial losses caused by vulnerabilities. Existing methods on smart contract vulnerability detection heavily rely on fixed expert rules, leading to low detection accuracy. In this paper, we explore using graph neural networks (GNNs) for smart contract vulnerability detection. Particularly, we construct a contract graph to represent both syntactic and semantic structures of a smart contract function. To highlight the major nodes, we design an elimination phase to normalize the graph. Then, we propose a degree-free graph convolutional neural network (DR-GCN) and a novel temporal message propagation network (TMP) to learn from the normalized graphs for vulnerability detection. Extensive experiments show that our proposed approach significantly outperforms state-of-the-art methods in detecting three different types of vulnerabilities.
* **Summary**:In this paper, we have proposed a fully automated vulnerability analyzer for smart contracts. In contrast to existing methods, we explicitly model the fallback mechanism of smart contracts, consider rich dependencies between program elements, and explore the possibility of using novel graph neural networks for vulnerability detection. Extensive experiments show that our method significantly outperforms state-of-theart methods and other neural networks. We believe our work is an important step towards revealing the potential of deep learning methods on smart contract vulnerability detection tasks.
* **Keywords**:MAGCN
* **Code**:
* **Dataset**:ESC,VSC 