# The Graph-based Mutual Attentive Network for Automatic Diagnosis
* **Author**:Quan Yuan, Jun Chen , Chao Lu , Haifeng Huang
* **Abstract**:The automatic diagnosis has been suffering from the problem of inadequate reliable corpus to train a trustworthy predictive model. Besides, most of the previous deep learning based diagnosis models adopt the sequence learning techniques (CNN or RNN), which is difficult to extract the complex structural information, e.g. graph structure, between the critical medical entities. In this paper, we propose to build the diagnosis model based on the high-standard EMR documents from real hospitals to improve the accuracy and the credibility of the resulting model. Meanwhile, we introduce the Graph Convolutional Network into the model that alleviates the sparse feature problem and facilitates the extraction of structural information for diagnosis. Moreover, we propose the mutual attentive network to enhance the representation of inputs towards the better model performance. The evaluation conducted on the real EMR documents demonstrates that the proposed model is more accurate compared to the previous sequence learning based diagnosis models. The proposed model has been integrated into the information systems in over hundreds of primary health care facilities in China to assist physicians in the diagnostic process.
* **Summary**:In this paper, we propose GMAN, an automatic diagnosis model which is built upon the reliable corpus of EMR documents from hospitals. GMAN consists of medical graph construction, GCN encoding and mutual attentive network. We construct the disease hierarchy and the causal graph of diseases based on the international standards as well as the clinical EMR data. The proposed GCN encoding extracts the complex structural information between the critical findings found on the patient. The mutual attentive network enhances the feature representations of the critical words and findings by imposing higher attention weights on them. The experimental results show that the proposed models outperform the previous deep learning based diagnosis methods on the realworld clincial EMR data.
* **Keywords**:GMAN
* **Code**:
* **Dataset**:EMR