# Community-Centric Graph Convolutional Network for Unsupervised Community Detection
* **Author**: Dongxiao He, Yue Song , Di Jin , Zhiyong Feng , Binbin Zhang , Zhizhi Yu,Weixiong Zhang
* **Abstract**:Community detection, aiming at partitioning a network into multiple substructures, is practically importance. Graph convolutional network (GCN), a new deep-learning technique, has recently been developed for community detection. Markov Random Fields (MRF) has been combined with GCN in the MRFasGCN method to improve accuracy. However, the existing GCN community-finding methods are semi-supervised, even though community finding is essentially an unsupervised learning problem. We developed a new GCN approach for unsupervised community detection under the framework of Autoencoder. We cast MRFasGCN as an encoder and then derived node community membership in the hidden layer of the encoder. We introduced a community-centric dual decoder to reconstruct network structures and node attributes separately in an unsupervised fashion, for faithful community detection in the input space. We designed a scheme of local enhancement to accommodate nodes to have more common neighbors and similar attributes with similar community memberships. Experimental results on real networks showed that our new method outperformed the best existing methods, showing the effectiveness of the novel decoding mechanism for generating links and attributes together over the commonly used methods for reconstructing links alone.
* **Summary**:This is the first approach extending GCN effectively to unsupervised community detection. Using the Autoencoder framework, we focused on community identification rather than network embedding in the encoder; and used the most suitable mechanisms to reconstruct links and attributes separately. We also introduced a local enhancement to ameliorate the issue of overfitting brought by the sparsity of networked data. We carried out experiments and demonstrated the superiority of the new approach. We further showed the effectiveness of the novel decoding mechanism for generating links and attributes against the most commonly used methods for reconstructing links alone. Even though the new approach was designed for community detection, the underlying idea may be readily extended to GCN-based network embedding as discussed in Related Work.
* **Keywords**: community identification
* **Code**:
* **Dataset**: Texas, Cornell, Washington , Wisconsin , Twitter, Cora , UAI2010 , Citeseer , Pubmed