# GoGNN: Graph of Graphs Neural Network for Predicting Structured Entity Interactions
* **Author**:Hanchen Wang, Defu Lian , Ying Zhang , Lu Qin , Xuemin Lin
* **Abstract**:Entity interaction prediction is essential in many important applications such as chemistry, biology, material science, and medical science. The problem becomes quite challenging when each entity is represented by a complex structure, namely structured entity, because two types of graphs are involved: local graphs for structured entities and a global graph to capture the interactions between structured entities. We observe that existing works on structured entity interaction prediction cannot properly exploit the unique graph of graphs model. In this paper, we propose a Graph of Graphs Neural Network, namely GoGNN, which extracts the features in both structured entity graphs and the entity interaction graph in a hierarchical way. We also propose the dual-attention mechanism that enables the model to preserve the neighbor importance in both levels of graphs. Extensive experiments on real-world datasets show that GoGNN outperforms the state-of-the-art methods on two representative structured entity interaction prediction tasks: chemical-chemical interaction prediction and drug-drug interaction prediction.
* **Summary**:In this paper, we focus on structured entity interaction prediction. This prediction demands the model to capture the information of the structure of entities and the interactions between entities. However, the previous works represent the entities with insufficient information. To address this limitation, we propose a novel model GoGNN which leverages the dualattention mechanism in the view of graph of graphs to capture the information from both entity graphs and entity interaction graph hierarchically. The experiments on real-life datasets demonstrate that our model could improve the performance on the chemical-chemical interaction prediction and drugdrug interaction prediction tasks. GoGNN can be naturally extended to the applications on other graph of graphs such as financial networks, electrical networks, etc. We leave the extension for future work.
* **Keywords**: GoGNN
* **Code**:https://github.com/Hanchen-Wang/GoGNN
* **Dataset**: CCI , DDI