# Graph Neural Networks Meet Neural-Symbolic Computing: A Survey and Perspective
* **Author**: Luis C.Lamb, Artur d’Avila Garcez, Marco Gori, Marcelo O.R.Prates,Pedro H.C. Avelar, Moshe Y. Vardi
* **Abstract**:Neural-symbolic computing has now become the subject of interest of both academic and industry research laboratories. Graph Neural Networks (GNNs) have been widely used in relational and symbolic domains, with widespread application of GNNs in combinatorial optimization, constraint satisfaction, relational reasoning and other scientific domains. The need for improved explainability, interpretability and trust of AI systems in general demands principled methodologies, as suggested by neural-symbolic computing. In this paper, we review the state-of-the-art on the use of GNNs as a model of neural-symbolic computing. This includes the application of GNNs in several domains as well as their relationship to current developments in neural-symbolic computing.
* **Summary**:We presented a review on the relationship between Graph Neural Network (GNN) models and architectures and NeuralSymbolic Computing (NSC). In order to do so, we presented the main recent research results that highlight the potential applications of these related fields both in foundational and applied AI and Computer Science problems. The interplay between the two fields is beneficial to several areas. These range from combinatorial optimization/constraint satisfaction to relational reasoning, which has been the subject of increasing industrial relevance in natural language processing, life sciences and computer vision and image understanding [Raghavan, 2019; Marcus, 2020]. This is largely due to the fact that many learning tasks can be easily and naturally captured using graph representations, which can be seen as a generalization over the traditional sequential (RNN) and gridbased representations (CNN) in the family of deep learning building blocks. Finally, it is worth mentioning that the principled integration of both methodologies (GNNs and NSC) offers a richer alternative to the construction of trustful, explainable and robust AI systems, which is clearly an invaluable research endeavor.
* **Keywords**:neural-symbolic computing
* **Code**:
* **Dataset**: