# GraphSleepNet: Adaptive Spatial-Temporal Graph Convolutional Networks for Sleep Stage Classification
* **Author**: Ziyu Jia, Youfang Lin, Jing Wang , Ronghao Zhou , Xiaojun Ning , Yuanlai He , Yaoshuai Zhao
* **Abstract**:Sleep stage classification is essential for sleep assessment and disease diagnosis. However, how to effectively utilize brain spatial features and transition information among sleep stages continues to be challenging. In particular, owing to the limited knowledge of the human brain, predefining a suitable spatial brain connection structure for sleep stage classification remains an open question. In this paper, we propose a novel deep graph neural network, named GraphSleepNet, for automatic sleep stage classification. The main advantage of the GraphSleepNet is to adaptively learn the intrinsic connection among different electroencephalogram (EEG) channels, represented by an adjacency matrix, thereby best serving the spatialtemporal graph convolution network (ST-GCN) for sleep stage classification. Meanwhile, the ST-GCN consists of graph convolutions for extracting spatial features and temporal convolutions for capturing the transition rules among sleep stages. Experiments on the Montreal Archive of Sleep Studies (MASS) dataset demonstrate that the GraphSleepNet outperforms the state-of-the-art baselines.
* **Summary**:In this paper, we propose a novel deep graph neural network for automatic sleep stage classification. The main advantage of the proposed model is to adaptively learn the sleep connection structure that best serves ST-GCN for the classification task. Furthermore, this model combines spatial-temporal convolution and spatial-temporal attention mechanisms to simultaneously capture attentive spatial-temporal features of the sleep data. Experimental results demonstrate our model achieves state-of-the-art performance in the existing models. In addition, our proposed model is a general-framework for multivariate physiological time series.
* **Keywords**:ST-GCN
* **Code**:
* **Dataset**: MASS-SS