# Fine-grained Fact Verification with Kernel Graph Attention Network
* **Author**: Zhenghao Liu, Chenyan Xiong, Maosong Sun, Zhiyuan Liu
* **Abstract**:Fact Verification requires fine-grained natural language inference capability that finds subtle clues to identify the syntactical and semantically correct but not well-supported claims. This paper presents Kernel Graph Attention Network (KGAT), which conducts more finegrained fact verification with kernel-based attentions. Given a claim and a set of potential evidence sentences that form an evidence graph, KGAT introduces node kernels, which better measure the importance of the evidence node, and edge kernels, which conduct fine-grained evidence propagation in the graph, into Graph Attention Networks for more accurate fact verification. KGAT achieves a 70.38% FEVER score and significantly outperforms existing fact verification models on FEVER, a large-scale benchmark for fact verification. Our analyses illustrate that, compared to dot-product attentions, the kernelbased attention concentrates more on relevant evidence sentences and meaningful clues in the evidence graph, which is the main source of KGAT’s effectiveness.
* **Summary**:This paper presents KGAT, which uses kernels in Graph Neural Networks to conduct more accurate evidence selection and fine-grained joint reasoning. Our experiments show that kernels lead to the more accurate fact verification. Our studies illustrate the two kernels play different roles and contribute to different aspects crucial for fact verification. While the dot-product attentions are rather scattered and hard to explain, the kernel-based attentions show intuitive and effective attention patterns: the node kernels focus more on the correct evidence pieces; the edge kernels accurately gather the necessary information from one node to the other to complete the reasoning chain. In the future, we will further study this properties of kernel-based attentions in neural networks, both in the effectiveness front and also the explainability front.
* **Keywords**:KGAT
* **Code**:https://github.com/thunlp/KernelGAT
* **Dataset**: FEVER