# Integrating Semantic and Structural Information with Graph Convolutional Network for Controversy Detection
* **Author**: Lei Zhong, Juan Cao, Qiang Sheng, Junbo Guo, Ziang Wang
* **Abstract**:Identifying controversial posts on social media is a fundamental task for mining public sentiment, assessing the influence of events, and alleviating the polarized views. However, existing methods fail to 1) effectively incorporate the semantic information from contentrelated posts; 2) preserve the structural information for reply relationship modeling; 3) properly handle posts from topics dissimilar to those in the training set. To overcome the first two limitations, we propose TopicPost-Comment Graph Convolutional Network (TPC-GCN), which integrates the information from the graph structure and content of topics, posts, and comments for post-level controversy detection. As to the third limitation, we extend our model to Disentangled TPC-GCN (DTPC-GCN), to disentangle topic-related and topic-unrelated features and then fuse dynamically. Extensive experiments on two realworld datasets demonstrate that our models outperform existing methods. Analysis of the results and cases proves that our models can integrate both semantic and structural information with significant generalizability.
* **Summary**:In this paper, we propose a novel method TPCGCN to integrate the information from the graph structure and content of topics, posts, and comments for post-level controversy detection on social media. Unlike the existing works, we exploit the information from related posts in the same topic and the reply structure for more effective detection. To improve the performance of our model for inter-topic detection, we propose an extension of TPC-GCN named DTPC-GCN, to disentangle the topic-related and topic-unrelated features and then dynamically fuse them. Extensive experiments conducted on two datasets demonstrate that our proposed models outperform the compared methods and prove that our models can integrate both semantic and structural information with significant genaralizablity.
* **Keywords**:DTPC-GCN
* **Code**:
* **Dataset**: Reddit Dataset, Weibo Dataset