# Line Graph Enhanced AMR-to-Text Generation with Mix-Order Graph Attention Networks
* **Author**: Yanbin Zhao, Lu Chen, Zhi Chen, Ruisheng Cao, Su Zhu, Kai Yu
* **Abstract**:Efficient structure encoding for graphs with labeled edges is an important yet challenging point in many graph-based models. This work focuses on AMR-to-text generation – A graph-to-sequence task aiming to recover natural language from Abstract Meaning Representations (AMR). Existing graph-to-sequence approaches generally utilize graph neural networks as their encoders, which have two limitations: 1) The message propagation process in AMR graphs is only guided by the firstorder adjacency information. 2) The relationships between labeled edges are not fully considered. In this work, we propose a novel graph encoding framework which can effectively explore the edge relations. We also adopt graph attention networks with higherorder neighborhood information to encode the rich structure in AMR graphs. Experiment results show that our approach obtains new state-of-the-art performance on English AMR benchmark datasets. The ablation analyses also demonstrate that both edge relations and higher-order information are beneficial to graph-to-sequence modeling.
* **Summary**:In this work, we presented a novel graph-tosequence approach which uses line graph to model the relationships between labeled edges from the original AMR graph. The mix-order graph attention networks are found effective when handling indirectly connected nodes. The ablation studies also demonstrate that exploring edge relations brings benefits to graph-to-sequence modeling. Furthermore, our framework can be efficiently applied to other graph-to-sequence tasks such as WebNLG (Gardent et al., 2017) and syntax-based neural machine translation (Bastings et al., 2017). In future work we would like to do several experiments on other related tasks to test the versatility of our framework. Also, we plan to use large-scale unlabeled data to improve the performance further.
* **Keywords**:ARM
* **Code**:https://github.com/ybz79/AMR2text
* **Dataset**: LDC2015E85, LDC2017T10