# Relational Graph Attention Network for Aspect-based Sentiment Analysis
* **Author**: Kai Wang, Weizhou Shen, Yunyi Yang, Xiaojun Quan, Rui Wang
* **Abstract**:Aspect-based sentiment analysis aims to determine the sentiment polarity towards a specific aspect in online reviews. Most recent efforts adopt attention-based neural network models to implicitly connect aspects with opinion words. However, due to the complexity of language and the existence of multiple aspects in a single sentence, these models often confuse the connections. In this paper, we address this problem by means of effective encoding of syntax information. Firstly, we define a unified aspect-oriented dependency tree structure rooted at a target aspect by reshaping and pruning an ordinary dependency parse tree. Then, we propose a relational graph attention network (R-GAT) to encode the new tree structure for sentiment prediction. Extensive experiments are conducted on the SemEval 2014 and Twitter datasets, and the experimental results confirm that the connections between aspects and opinion words can be better established with our approach, and the performance of the graph attention network (GAT) is significantly improved as a consequence.
* **Summary**:In this paper, we have proposed an effective approach to encoding comprehensive syntax information for aspect-based sentiment analysis. We first defined a novel aspect-oriented dependency tree structure by reshaping and pruning an ordinary dependency parse tree to root it at a target aspect. We then demonstrated how to encode the new dependency trees with our relational graph attention network (R-GAT) for sentiment classification. Experimental results on three public datasets showed that the connections between aspects and opinion words can be better established with R-GAT, and the performance of GAT and BERT are significantly improved as a result. We also conducted an ablation study to validate the role of the new tree structure and the relational heads. Finally, an error analysis was performed on incorrectly-predicted examples, leading to some insights into this task.
* **Keywords**:R-GAT
* **Code**:https://github.com/shenwzh3/RGAT-ABSA
* **Dataset**: Laptop, Restaurant, Twitter