# GMAN: A Graph Multi-Attention Network for Traffic Prediction
* **Author**:Chuanpan Zheng、Xiaoliang Fan、∗ Cheng Wang、Jianzhong Qi
* **Abstract**:Long-term traffic prediction is highly challenging due to the complexity of traffic systems and the constantly changing nature of many impacting factors. In this paper, we focus on the spatio-temporal factors, and propose a graph multi-attention network (GMAN) to predict traffic conditions for time steps ahead at different locations on a road network graph. GMAN adapts an encoder-decoder architecture, where both the encoder and the decoder consist of multiple spatio-temporal attention blocks to model the impact of the spatio-temporal  factors on traffic conditions. The encoder encodes the input traffic  features and the decoder predicts the output sequence. Between the encoder and the decoder, a transform attention layer is applied to convert the encoded traffic features to generate the sequence representations of future time steps as the input of the decoder. The transform attention mechanism models the direct relationships between historical and future time steps that helps to alleviate the error propagation problem among prediction time steps. Experimental results on two real-world traffic prediction tasks (i.e., traffic volume prediction and traffic speed prediction) demonstrate the superiority of GMAN. In particular, in the 1 hour ahead prediction, GMAN outperforms state-of-the-art methods by up to 4% improvement in MAE measure. 
* **Summary**:We proposed a graph multi-attention network (GMAN) to predict traffic conditions for time steps ahead on a road network graph. Specifically, we proposed spatial and temporal attention mechanisms with gated fusion to model the complex spatio-temporal correlations. We further designed a transform attention mechanism to ease the effect of error propagation to improve the long-term prediction performance. Experiments on two real-world datasets show that GMAN achieves state-of-the-art results, and the advantages are more evident as the predictions are made into far future. In the future, we will apply GMAN to other spatio-temporal prediction tasks, such as water consumption prediction.
* **Keywords**:graph multi-attention network
* **Code**:https://github.com/zhengchuanpan/GMAN
* **Dataset**:Xiamen dataset、PeMS dataset
