# Graph Convolutional Networks with Markov Random Field Reasoning for Social Spammer Detection
* **Author**:Yongji Wu,Defu Lian,∗Yiheng Xu,Le Wu,Enhong Chen
* **Abstract**:The recent growth of social networking platforms also led to the emergence of social spammers, who overwhelm legitimate users with unwanted content. The existing social spammer detection methods can be characterized into two categories: features based ones and propagation-based ones. Features based methods mainly rely on matrix factorization using tweet text features, and regularization using social graphs is incorporated. However, these methods are fully supervised and can only utilize labeled part of social graphs, which fail to work in a real-world semi-supervised setting. The propagation-based methods primarily employ Markov Random Fields (MRFs) to capture human intuitions in user following relations, which cannot take advantages of rich text features. In this paper, we propose a novel social spammer detection model based on Graph Convolutional Networks (GCNs) that operate on directed social graphs by explicitly considering three types of neighbors. Furthermore, inspired by the propagation-based methods, we propose a MRF layer with refining effects to encapsulate these human insights in social relations, which can be formulated as a RNN through mean-field approximate inference, and stack on top of GCN layers to enable end-to-end training. We evaluate our proposed method on two real-world social network datasets, and the results demonstrate that our method outperforms the stateof-the-art approaches.
* **Summary**:In this paper, we developed a model incorporating both GCN and MRF, which operate on directed social graphs for semisupervised social spammer detection. Extensive experiments demonstrate the superiority of our method and the refining effect of the MRF layer. We also find that multi-step reasoning in the MRF layer is essential to ensure convergence. However, we simply use BoW features. We may incorporate state-of-the-art language models in future work.
* **Keywords**:GCN,MRF
* **Code**:
* **Dataset**:Twitter Social Honeypot Dataset,Twitter 1KS-10KN Dataset