# GraphER: Token-Centric Entity Resolution with Graph Convolutional Neural Networks
* **Author**:Bing Li, Wei Wang, Yifang Sun, Linhan Zhang, Muhammad Asif Ali, Yi Wang
* **Abstract**:Entity resolution (ER) aims to identify entity records that refer to the same real-world entity, which is a critical problem in data cleaning and integration. Most of the existing models are attribute-centric, that is, matching entity pairs by comparing similarities of pre-aligned attributes, which require the schemas of records to be identical and are too coarse-grained to capture subtle key information within a single attribute. In this paper, we propose a novel graph-based ER model GraphER. Our model is token-centric: the final matching results are generated by directly aggregating token-level comparison features, in which both the semantic and structural information has been softly embedded into token embeddings by training an Entity Record Graph Convolutional Network (ER-GCN). To the best of our knowledge, our work is the first effort to do token-centric entity resolution with the help of GCN in entity resolution task. Extensive experiments on two real-world datasets demonstrate that our model stably outperforms state-of-the-art models.
* **Summary**:In this paper, we propose a new token-centric paradigm for DL-based ER model. Instead of representing and comparing entity records in attribute-level, our model first integrate schematic and structural information into token representations with ER-GCN, and the final ER decisions are fetched by directly aggregating token-level comparison features. Compared with the best state-of-the-art models, our model gains a 7.57 pts and 0.91 pt improvements on AmazonGoogle and BeerAdvo-RateBeer dataset, respectively. 
* **Keywords**:Entity resolution,GCN
* **Code**:
* **Dataset**:Amazon-Google,BeerAdvo-RateBee