# Hybrid Graph Neural Networks for Crowd Counting
* **Author**:Ao Luo, Fan Yang, Xin Li, Dong Nie, Zhicheng Jiao, Shangchen Zhou, Hong Cheng
* **Abstract**:Crowd counting is an important yet challenging task due to the large scale and density variation. Recent investigations have shown that distilling rich relations among multi-scale features and exploiting useful information from the auxiliary task, i.e., localization, are vital for this task. Nevertheless, how to comprehensively leverage these relations within a unified network architecture is still a challenging problem. In this paper, we present a novel network structure called Hybrid Graph Neural Network (HyGnn) which targets to relieve the problem by interweaving the multi-scale features for crowd density as well as its auxiliary task (localization) together and performing joint reasoning over a graph. Specifically, HyGnn integrates a hybrid graph to jointly represent the task-specific feature maps of different scales as nodes, and two types of relations as edges: (i) multi-scale relations capturing the feature dependencies across scales and (ii) mutual beneficial relations building bridges for the cooperation between counting and localization. Thus, through message passing, HyGnn can capture and distill richer relations between nodes to obtain more powerful representations, providing robust and accurate results. Our HyGnn performs significantly well on four challenging datasets: ShanghaiTech Part A, ShanghaiTech Part B, UCF CC 50 and UCF QNRF, outperforming the state-ofthe-art algorithms by a large margin.
* **Summary**:In this paper, we propose a novel method for crowd counting with a hybrid graph model. To best of our knowledge, it is the first deep model that can handle both multi-scale and mutual beneficial relations within a unified graph for crowd counting. The whole HyGnn is end-to-end differentiable and able to handle different relations effectively. Meanwhile, the domain gap between different tasks is also carefully considered in our HyGnn. According to our experiments, HyGnn achieves significant improvements compared to recent stateof-the-art methods on four benchmarks. We believe that our HyGnn can also incorporate other knowledge, e.g., foreground information, for further performance improvements.
* **Keywords**:Crowd Counting,Hybrid Graph Neural Networks
* **Code**:
* **Dataset**:Shanghai Tech,UCF_CC_50,UCF_QNRF