# Infusing Knowledge into the Textual Entailment Task Using Graph Convolutional Networks
* **Author**:Pavan Kapanipathi, Veronika Thost, *Siva Sankalp Patel
* **Abstract**:Textual entailment is a fundamental task in natural language processing. Most approaches for solving this problem use only the textual content present in training data. A few approaches have shown that information from external knowledge sources like knowledge graphs (KGs) can add value, in addition to the textual content, by providing background knowledge that may be critical for a task. However, the proposed models do not fully exploit the information in the usually large and noisy KGs, and it is not clear how it can be effectively encoded to be useful for entailment. We present an approach that complements text-based entailment models with information from KGs by (1) using Personalized PageRank to generate contextual subgraphs with reduced noise and (2) encoding these subgraphs using graph convolutional networks to capture the structural and semantic information in KGs. We evaluate our approach on multiple textual entailment datasets and show that the use of external knowledge helps the model to be robust and improves prediction accuracy. This is particularly evident in the challenging BreakingNLI dataset, where we see an absolute improvement of 5-20% over multiple text-based entailment models.
* **Summary**:In this paper, we presented a systematic approach for infusing external knowledge into the textual entailment task using contextually relevant subgraphs extracted from a KG and encoded with graph convolutional networks. These graph representations are combined with standard text-based representations into a KG-augmented entailment system which yields significant improvement on the challenging BreakingNLI dataset. Additionally, the KES approach is modular, can be used with any knowledge graph, and is generalizable to multiple datasets. In our future work, we plan to consider other KGs and to investigate alternative graph representations. Furthermore, it would be interesting to see how KES performs on the popular question answering datasets.
* **Keywords**:Textual Entailment, GCN
* **Code**:
* **Dataset**:SNLI, SciTail, MultiNLI, BreakingNLI