# Measuring and Relieving the Over-Smoothing Problem for Graph Neural Networks from the Topological View
* **Author**:Deli Chen, Yankai Lin, Wei Li, Peng Li, Jie Zhou, Xu Sun
* **Abstract**:Graph Neural Networks (GNNs) have achieved promising performance on a wide range of graph-based tasks. Despite their success, one severe limitation of GNNs is the over-smoothing issue (indistinguishable representations of nodes in different classes). In this work, we present a systematic and quantitative study on the over-smoothing issue of GNNs. First, we introduce two quantitative metrics, MAD and MADGap, to measure the smoothness and oversmoothness of the graph nodes representations, respectively. Then, we verify that smoothing is the nature of GNNs and the critical factor leading to over-smoothness is the low information-to-noise ratio of the message received by the nodes, which is partially determined by the graph topology. Finally, we propose two methods to alleviate the oversmoothing issue from the topological view: (1) MADReg which adds a MADGap-based regularizer to the training objective; (2) AdaEdge which optimizes the graph topology based on the model predictions. Extensive experiments on 7 widely-used graph datasets with 10 typical GNN models show that the two proposed methods are effective for relieving the over-smoothing issue, thus improving the performance of various GNN models.
* **Summary**:In this work, we conduct a systematic and quantitative study of the over-smoothing issue faced by GNNs. We first design two quantitative metrics: MAD for smoothness and MADGap for over-smoothness. From the quantitative measurement results on multiple GNNs and graph datasets, we find that smoothing is the essential nature of GNNs; oversmoothness is caused by the over-mixing of information and the noise. Furthermore, we find that there is a significantly high correlation between the MADGap and the model performance. Besides, we prove that the information-to-noise ratio is related to the graph topology, and we can relieve the over-smoothing issue by optimizing the graph topology to make it more suitable for downstream tasks. Followingly, we propose two methods to relieve the over-smoothing issue in GNNs: The MADReg and the AdaEdge methods. Extensive results prove that these two methods can effectively relieve the over-smoothing problem and improve model performance in general situations. Although we have shown optimizing graph topology is an effective way of improving GNNs performance, our proposed AdaEdge method still suffers from the wrong graph adjustment operation problem. How to reduce these operations is a promising research direction.
* **Keywords**:Over-Smoothing Problem , GNN
* **Code**:
* **Dataset**:CORA，CiteSeer，PubMed，CS，Physics， Computers，Photo