# Multi-Agent Game Abstraction via Graph Attention Neural Network
* **Author**:Yong Liu,∗ Weixun Wang,∗ Yujing Hu, Jianye Hao, Xingguo Chen, Yang Gao
* **Abstract**:In large-scale multi-agent systems, the large number of agents and complex game relationship cause great difficulty for policy learning. Therefore, simplifying the learning process is an important research issue. In many multi-agent systems, the interactions between agents often happen locally, which means that agents neither need to coordinate with all other agents nor need to coordinate with others all the time. Traditional methods attempt to use pre-defined rules to capture the interaction relationship between agents. However, the methods cannot be directly used in a large-scale environment due to the difficulty of transforming the complex interactions between agents into rules. In this paper, we model the relationship between agents by a complete graph and propose a novel game abstraction mechanism based on two-stage attention network (G2ANet), which can indicate whether there is an interaction between two agents and the importance of the interaction. We integrate this detection mechanism into graph neural network-based multi-agent reinforcement learning for conducting game abstraction and propose two novel learning algorithms GA-Comm and GA-AC. We conduct experiments in Traffic Junction and Predator-Prey. The results indicate that the proposed methods can simplify the learning process and meanwhile get better asymptotic performance compared with state-of-the-art algorithms.
* **Summary**:In this paper, we focus on the simplification of policy learning in large-scale multi-agent systems. We learn the relationship between agents and achieve game abstraction by defining a novel attention mechanism. At different time steps in an episode, the relationship between agents is constantly changing. In this paper, we can learn the adaptive and dynamic attention value. Our major contributions include the novel two-stage attention mechanism G2ANet, and the two game abstraction based learning algorithms GAComm and GA-AC. Experimental results in Traffic Junction and Predator-Prey show that with the novel game abstraction mechanism, the GA-Comm and GA-AC algorithms can get better performance compared with state-of-the-art algorithms.
* **Keywords**:Graph Attention Neural Network
* **Code**:
* **Dataset**:Traffic Junction,Multi-Agent Particle environment