# Multi-Label Patent Categorization with Non-Local Attention-Based Graph Convolutional Network
* **Author**:Pingjie Tang,∗ Meng Jiang, Bryan (Ning) Xia, Jed W. Pitera, Jeffrey Welser
* **Abstract**:Patent categorization, which is to assign multiple International Patent Classification (IPC) codes to a patent document, relies heavily on expert efforts, as it requires substantial domain knowledge. When formulated as a multi-label text classification (MTC) problem, it draws two challenges to existing models: one is to learn effective document representations from text content; the other is to model the cross-section behavior of label set. In this work, we propose a label attention model based on graph convolutional network. It jointly learns the document-word associations and word-word cooccurrences to generate rich semantic embeddings of documents. It employs a non-local attention mechanism to learn label representations in the same space of document representations for multi-label classification. On a large CIRCA patent database, we evaluate the performance of our model and as many as seven competitive baselines. We find that our model outperforms all those prior state of the art by a large margin and achieves high performance on P@k and nDCG@k.
* **Summary**:In this paper, we present an attention-based GCN model which is characterized by Adaptive NLSOA layer. We apply it over a textual graph to solve a patent MTC problem. Model is designed to increase the representation power of the learned node embeddings in the context of long patent documents. Based on unique properties presented in the patent data, the Adaptive NLSOA not only manages to capture non-local and fine-grained semantic information, but also directly models the relationship between different semantic components in the document and individual label in order to alleviate the multi-meaning issue of IPC code. We conduct extensive experiments to evaluate the effectiveness of our model. Results demonstrate that our proposed model achieves very competitive performance, providing significant improvements over the current state-of-the-art.
* **Keywords**:Multi-Label Patent Categorization,GCN
* **Code**:
* **Dataset**:CIRCA