# Multi-Range Attentive Bicomponent Graph Convolutional Network for Traffic Forecasting
* **Author**:Weiqi Chen,Ling Chen, *Yu Xie, Wei Cao, Yusong Gao, Xiaojie Feng
* **Abstract**:Traffic forecasting is of great importance to transportation management and public safety, and very challenging due to the complicated spatial-temporal dependency and essential uncertainty brought about by the road network and traffic conditions. Latest studies mainly focus on modeling the spatial dependency by utilizing graph convolutional networks (GCNs) throughout a fixed weighted graph. However, edges, i.e., the correlations between pair-wise nodes, are much more complicated and interact with each other. In this paper, we propose the Multi-Range Attentive Bicomponent GCN (MRA-BGCN), a novel deep learning model for traffic forecasting. We first build the node-wise graph according to the road network distance and the edge-wise graph according to various edge interaction patterns. Then, we implement the interactions of both nodes and edges using bicomponent graph convolution. The multi-range attention mechanism is introduced to aggregate information in different neighborhood ranges and automatically learn the importance of different ranges. Extensive experiments on two real-world road network traffic datasets, METR-LA and PEMS-BAY, show that our MRA-BGCN achieves the stateof-the-art results.
* **Summary**:We propose the Multi-Range Attentive Bicomponent Graph Convolutional Network for traffic forecasting. Specifically, the bicomponent graph convolution is proposed to explicitly model the correlations of both nodes and edges. An edge-wise graph construction approach is proposed to encode stream connectivity and competitive relationship. The multi-range attention mechanism is proposed to efficiently leverage multiple range information and generate integrated representations. On two traffic datasets, our model achieves the state-of-the-art performance. For future work, we will investigate the following two aspects (1) applying the proposed model to other spatial-temporal forecasting tasks; (2) extending our approach to model more complex spatial-temporal dependencies considering more factors, e.g., traffic accidents and surrounding points of interest.
* **Keywords**:MRA-BGCN
* **Code**:
* **Dataset**:METR-LA,PEMS-BAY