# Multi-Stage Self-Supervised Learning for Graph Convolutional Networks on Graphs with Few Labeled Nodes
* **Author**:Ke Sun, Zhouchen Lin, Zhanxing Zhu
* **Abstract**:Graph Convolutional Networks (GCNs) play a crucial role in graph learning tasks, however, learning graph embedding with few supervised signals is still a difficult problem. In this paper, we propose a novel training algorithm for Graph Convolutional Network, called Multi-Stage SelfSupervised (M3S) Training Algorithm, combined with selfsupervised learning approach, focusing on improving the generalization performance of GCNs on graphs with few labeled nodes. Firstly, a Multi-Stage Training Framework is provided as the basis of M3S training method. Then we leverage DeepCluster technique, a popular form of self-supervised learning, and design corresponding aligning mechanism on the embedding space to refine the Multi-Stage Training Framework, resulting in M3S Training Algorithm. Finally, extensive experimental results verify the superior performance of our algorithm on graphs with few labeled nodes under different label rates compared with other state-of-theart approaches.
* **Summary**:In this paper, we firstly clarify the Layer Effect of GCNs on graphs with few labeled nodes, demonstrating that it is expected to stack more layers to facilitate the propagation of label information with lower label rate. Then we propose Multi-Stage Training Algorithm Framework on the basis of Self-Training, adding confident data with virtual labels to the labeled set to enlarge the training set. In addition, we apply DeepCluster on the graph embedding process of GCNs and design a novel aligning mechanism to construct self-checking mechanism to improve MultiStage Training Framework. Our final proposed approach, M3S Training Algorithm, outperforms other state-of-the-art methods with different label rates across all the considered graphs with few labeled nodes. Overall, M3S Training Algorithm is a novel and efficient algorithm focusing on graphs with few labeled nodes.
* **Keywords**:Multi-Stage Self-Supervised Learning,GCN
* **Code**:
* **Dataset**:CiteSeer,Cora,PubMed