# Multi-Task Learning for Metaphor Detection with Graph Convolutional Neural Networks and Word Sense Disambiguation
* **Author**:Duong Minh Le, ∗My Thai, Thien Huu Nguyen
* **Abstract**:The current deep learning works on metaphor detection have only considered this task independently, ignoring the useful knowledge from the related tasks and knowledge resources. In this work, we introduce two novel mechanisms to improve the performance of the deep learning models for metaphor detection. The first mechanism employs graph convolutional neural networks (GCN) with dependency parse trees to directly connect the words of interest with their important context words for metaphor detection. The GCN networks in this work also present a novel control mechanism to filter the learned representation vectors to retain the most important information for metaphor detection. The second mechanism, on the other hand, features a multi-task learning framework that exploits the similarity between word sense disambiguation and metaphor detection to transfer the knowledge between the two tasks. The extensive experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed techniques, yielding the state-ofthe-art performance over several datasets.
* **Summary**:We present a multi-task learning model for metaphor detection that features graph convolutional neural networks to appropriately capture the important context words, the control mechanism to emphasize the target words, and the knowledge transferring from word sense disambiguation to improve the performance. We achieve the state-of-the-art performance on several benchmark datasets for metaphor detection. The experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of the components proposed in this work. In the future, we plan to (1) explore more methods and related tasks to further improve the multi-task learning for metaphor detection, and (2) extend the proposed models to other related applications.
* **Keywords**:Multi-Task Learning,GCN
* **Code**:
* **Dataset**:VUA ALL POS, VUA VERB, MOH-X, TroFi