# Relational Graph Neural Network with Hierarchical Attention for Knowledge Graph Completion
* **Author**:Zhao Zhang, Fuzhen Zhuang, Hengshu Zhu, Zhiping Shi
* **Abstract**:The rapid proliferation of knowledge graphs (KGs) has changed the paradigm for various AI-related applications. Despite their large sizes, modern KGs are far from complete and comprehensive. This has motivated the research in knowledge graph completion (KGC), which aims to infer missing values in incomplete knowledge triples. However, most existing KGC models treat the triples in KGs independently without leveraging the inherent and valuable information from the local neighborhood surrounding an entity. To this end, we propose a Relational Graph neural network with Hierarchical ATtention (RGHAT) for the KGC task. The proposed model is equipped with a two-level attention mechanism: (i) the first level is the relation-level attention, which is inspired by the intuition that different relations have different weights for indicating an entity; (ii) the second level is the entity-level attention, which enables our model to highlight the importance of different neighboring entities under the same relation. The hierarchical attention mechanism makes our model more effective to utilize the neighborhood information of an entity. Finally, we extensively validate the superiority of RGHAT against various state-of-the-art baselines.
* **Summary**:In this paper, we proposed a novel neighborhood-aware model RGHAT for the KGC task. RGHAT is equipped with a hierarchical attention mechanism, which can effectively aggregate the local neighborhood information of each entity. Particularly, the hierarchical attention mechanism provides a fine-grained learning process for the proposed model, which increased the interpretability of RGHAT. Moreover, further analysis showed the results of RGHAT were more consistent with human intuition compared to other neighborhoodaware models. Finally, extensive experiments on popular benchmarks clearly validated the superiority of RGHAT against various sate-of-the-art baselines.
* **Keywords**:RGHAT,KGC
* **Code**:
* **Dataset**:FB15k, WN18, FB15k-237, WN18RR