# Rumor Detection on Social Media with Bi-Directional Graph Convolutional Networks
* **Author**:Tian Bian, Xi Xiao, Tingyang Xu, Peilin Zhao, Wenbing Huang, Yu Rong, Junzhou Huang
* **Abstract**:Social media has been developing rapidly in public due to its nature of spreading new information, which leads to rumors being circulated. Meanwhile, detecting rumors from such massive information in social media is becoming an arduous challenge. Therefore, some deep learning methods are applied to discover rumors through the way they spread, such as Recursive Neural Network (RvNN) and so on. However, these deep learning methods only take into account the patterns of deep propagation but ignore the structures of wide dispersion in rumor detection. Actually, propagation and dispersion are two crucial characteristics of rumors. In this paper, we propose a novel bi-directional graph model, named Bi-Directional Graph Convolutional Networks (Bi-GCN), to explore both characteristics by operating on both top-down and bottom-up propagation of rumors. It leverages a GCN with a top-down directed graph of rumor spreading to learn the patterns of rumor propagation; and a GCN with an opposite directed graph of rumor diffusion to capture the structures of rumor dispersion. Moreover, the information from source post is involved in each layer of GCN to enhance the influences from the roots of rumors. Encouraging empirical results on several benchmarks confirm the superiority of the proposed method over the state-of-the-art approaches.
* **Summary**:In this paper, we propose a GCN-based model for rumor detection on social media, called Bi-GCN. Its inherent GCN model gives the proposed method the ability of processing graph/tree structures and learning higher-level representations more conducive to rumor detection. In addition, we also improve the effectiveness of the model by concatenating the features of the source post after each GCL of GCN. Meanwhile, we construct several variants of Bi-GCN to model the propagation patterns, i.e., UD-GCN, TD-GCN and BU-GCN. The experimental results on three real-world datasets demonstrate that the GCN-based approaches outperform state-of-the-art baselines in very large margins in terms of both accuracy and efficiency. In particular, the BiGCN model achieves the best performance by considering both the causal features of rumor propagation along relationship chains from top to down propagation pattern and the structural features from rumor dispersion within communities through the bottom-up gathering.
* **Keywords**:Bi-GCN
* **Code**:
* **Dataset**:Weibo,Twitter15,Twitter16