# Spatial-Temporal Synchronous Graph Convolutional Networks: A New Framework for Spatial-Temporal Network Data Forecasting
* **Author**:Chao Song, Youfang Lin, Shengnan Guo, Huaiyu Wan
* **Abstract**:Spatial-temporal network data forecasting is of great importance in a huge amount of applications for traffic management and urban planning. However, the underlying complex spatial-temporal correlations and heterogeneities make this problem challenging. Existing methods usually use separate components to capture spatial and temporal correlations and ignore the heterogeneities in spatial-temporal data. In this paper, we propose a novel model, named Spatial-Temporal Synchronous Graph Convolutional Networks (STSGCN), for spatial-temporal network data forecasting. The model is able to effectively capture the complex localized spatial-temporal correlations through an elaborately designed spatial-temporal synchronous modeling mechanism. Meanwhile, multiple modules for different time periods are designed in the model to effectively capture the heterogeneities in localized spatialtemporal graphs. Extensive experiments are conducted on four real-world datasets, which demonstrates that our method achieves the state-of-the-art performance and consistently outperforms other baselines.
* **Summary**:We propose a model which can not only capture the localized spatial-temporal correlations effectively but also take the heterogeneities in spatial-temporal data into considerations. And extensive experiments on four real-world datasets show that our model is superior to the existing models. Besides, our proposed model is a general-framework for spatial-temporal network data forecasting, so it can be applied in many related applications.
* **Keywords**:STSGCN
* **Code**:https://github.com/Davidham3/STSGCN
* **Dataset**:PEMS0, PEMS04, PEMS07, PEMS08