# DGCN: Dynamic Graph Convolutional Network for Efficient Multi-Person Pose Estimation
* **Author**:Zhongwei Qiu,∗ Kai Qiu,Jianlong Fu,Dongmei Fu
* **Abstract**:Multi-person pose estimation aims to detect human keypoints from images with multiple persons. Bottom-up methods for multi-person pose estimation have attracted extensive attention, owing to the good balance between efficiency and accuracy. Recent bottom-up methods usually follow the principle of keypoints localization and grouping, where relations between keypoints are the keys to group keypoints. These relations spontaneously construct a graph of keypoints, where the edges represent the relations between two nodes (i.e., keypoints). Existing bottom-up methods mainly define relations by empirically picking out edges from this graph, while omitting edges that may contain useful semantic relations. In this paper, we propose a novel Dynamic Graph Convolutional Module (DGCM) to model rich relations in the keypoints graph. Specifically, we take into account all relations (all edges of the graph) and construct dynamic graphs to tolerate large variations of human pose. The DGCM is quite lightweight, which allows it to be stacked like a pyramid architecture and learn structural relations from multi-level features. Our network with single DGCM based on ResNet-50 achieves relative gains of 3.2% and 4.8% over state-of-the-art bottom-up methods on COCO keypoints and MPII dataset, respectively.
* **Summary**:In this paper, we present a novel DGCN for 2D multi-person pose estimation. DGCN aims to learn rich relations between human keypoints and tolerate large variations of human pose. Extensive ablation studies and comparison experiments on two widely-used datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of DGCN. We also notice some limitations of this work. First, DGCN is only used for learning relations from features in this paper, while it should also work for grouping keypoints into persons. Second, a keypoints graph related to human action may work better than the current DGCN. We leave these for future exploration.
* **Keywords**:Dynamic Graph Convolutional Network
* **Code**:
* **Dataset**:MS COCO、MPII