# EvolveGCN: Evolving Graph Convolutional Networks for Dynamic Graphs Estimation
* **Author**:Aldo Pareja,*Giacomo Domeniconi,Jie Chen,Tengfei Ma,Toyotaro Suzumura,Hiroki Kanezashi
* **Abstract**:Graph representation learning resurges as a trending research subject owing to the widespread use of deep learning for Euclidean data, which inspire various creative designs of neural networks in the non-Euclidean domain, particularly graphs. With the success of these graph neural networks (GNN) in the static setting, we approach further practical scenarios where the graph dynamically evolves. Existing approaches typically resort to node embeddings and use a recurrent neural network (RNN, broadly speaking) to regulate the embeddings and learn the temporal dynamics. These methods require the knowledge of a node in the full time span (including both training and testing) and are less applicable to the frequent change of the node set. In some extreme scenarios, the node sets at different time steps may completely differ. To resolve this challenge, we propose EvolveGCN, which adapts the graph convolutional network (GCN) model along the temporal dimension without resorting to node embeddings. The proposed approach captures the dynamism of the graph sequence through using an RNN to evolve the GCN parameters. Two architectures are considered for the parameter evolution. We evaluate the proposed approach on tasks including link prediction, edge classification, and node classification. The experimental results indicate a generally higher performance of EvolveGCN compared with related approaches.
* **Summary**:IA plethora of neural network architectures were proposed recently for graph structured data and their effectiveness have been widely confirmed. In practical scenarios, however, we are often faced with graphs that are constantly evolving, rather than being conveniently static for a once-for-all investigation. The question is how neural networks handle such a dynamism. Combining GNN with RNN is a natural idea. Typical approaches use the GNN as a feature extractor and use an RNN to learn the dynamics from the extracted node features. We instead use the RNN to evolve the GNN, so that the dynamism is captured in the evolving network parameters. One advantage is that it handles more flexibly dynamic data, because a node does not need to be present all time around. Experimental results confirm that the proposed approach generally outperforms related ones for a variety of tasks, including link prediction, edge classification, and node classification.
* **Keywords**:Evolving Graph Convolutional Networks
* **Code**:https://github.com/IBM/EvolveGCN
* **Dataset**:Stochastic Block Model,Bitcoin OTC,Bitcoin Alpha,UC Irvine messages,Autonomous systems,Reddit Hyperlink Network,Elliptic