# GraLSP: Graph Neural Networks with Local Structural Patterns
* **Author**:Yilun Jin,*Guojie Song,Chuan Shi
* **Abstract**:It is not until recently that graph neural networks (GNNs) are adopted to perform graph representation learning, among which, those based on the aggregation of features within the neighborhood of a node achieved great success. However, despite such achievements, GNNs illustrate defects in identifying some common structural patterns which, unfortunately, play significant roles in various network phenomena. In this paper, we propose GraLSP, a GNN framework which explicitly incorporates local structural patterns into the neighborhood aggregation through random anonymous walks. Specifically, we capture local graph structures via random anonymous walks, powerful and flexible tools that represent structural patterns. The walks are then fed into the feature aggregation, where we design various mechanisms to address the impact of structural features, including adaptive receptive radius, attention and amplification. In addition, we design objectives that capture similarities between structures and are optimized jointly with node proximity objectives. With the adequate leverage of structural patterns, our model is able to outperform competitive counterparts in various prediction tasks in multiple datasets.
* **Summary**:We present a GNN framework incorporating local structural patterns to current GNNs, called GraLSP. We start by analyzing drawbacks of current GNNs in identifying local structural patterns, like triads. We then show that anonymous walks are effective alternatives in measuring local structural patterns, and represent them with vectors, which are incorporated into neighborhood aggregation with multiple modules. In addition, we present a multi-task objective preserving proximity between both pairwise nodes and walks. By adequately taking local structural patterns into account, our method outperforms several competitive baselines. For future work, we plan to extend this paper to GNNs with more sophisticated architectures and more elaborate representations of local structures. In addition, interpretations of structures in GNNs will definitely improve our insight on various network phenomena.
* **Keywords**:Graph Neural Networks with Local Structural Patterns
* **Code**:
* **Dataset**:Cora,Citeseer,AMiner,US-Airport