# Graph Attention Based Proposal 3D ConvNets for Action Detection
* **Author**:Jun Li,Xianglong Liu,∗Zhuofan Zong,Wanru Zhao,Mingyuan Zhang,Jingkuan Song
* **Abstract**:The recent advances in 3D Convolutional Neural Networks (3D CNNs) have shown promising performance for untrimmed video action detection, employing the popular detection framework that heavily relies on the temporal action proposal generations as the input of the action detector and localization regressor. In practice the proposals usually contain strong intra and inter relations among them, mainly stemming from the temporal and spatial variations in the video actions. However, most of existing 3D CNNs ignore the relations and thus suffer from the redundant proposals degenerating the detection performance and efficiency. To address this problem, we propose graph attention based proposal 3D ConvNets (AGCN-P-3DCNNs) for video action detection. Specifically, our proposed graph attention is composed of intra attention based GCN and inter attention based GCN. We use intra attention to learn the intra long-range dependencies inside each action proposal and update node matrix of Intra Attention based GCN, and use inter attention to learn the inter dependencies between different action proposals as adjacency matrix of Inter Attention based GCN. Afterwards, we fuse intra and inter attention to model intra long-range dependencies and inter dependencies simultaneously. Another contribution is that we propose a simple and effective framewise classifier, which enhances the feature presentation capabilities of backbone model. Experiments on two proposal 3D ConvNets based models (P-C3D and P-ResNet) and two popular action detection benchmarks (THUMOS 2014, ActivityNet v1.3) demonstrate the state-of-the-art performance achieved by our method. Particularly, P-C3D embedded with our module achieves average mAP 3.7% improvement on THUMOS 2014 dataset compared to original model.
* **Summary**:This paper proposes an attention based GCN for action detection in video, solving the problem that the proposal 3D CNNs based video action detection can not utilize the relations of temporal action proposals. Moreover, our AGCN can learn the intra long-range dependencies for every node in graph node matrix and learn the inter dependencies among proposals for adjacency matrix in the graph. Besides, to improve the whole network temporal action detection performance, we introduce the simple and effective framewise classifier module to enhance the backbone presentation capabilities. Compare with state-of-the-art methods, our proposed method can get the best performance.
* **Keywords**:AGCN-P-3DCNNs
* **Code**:
* **Dataset**:THUMOS 2014,ActivityNet v1.3